>> Nina Zakharenko: In the next and
final chapter, chapter eight,
we're gonna talk about Web Frameworks.
So web frameworks are a way for
us to test and
practice all of our
newfound Python knowledge.
And build a very,
very basic web application with
unit tests using Python and
the Flask framework.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's go
through the basics of Flask.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There are a few
different types of web frameworks in
Python.
Django is a very popular one.
It's a fully featured, high level
framework for building web apps.
Django focuses on automating
as much as possible,
many large scale sites run on Django.
Instagram is one of them.
Django started out as a CMS project, a
content management system for a newspaper.
And Django is a pretty heavy framework,
it has a lot of
opinions on how things should work and
how things should be structured.
If you want something lighter weight,
Flask is a good choice.
Flask is a micro framework for Python,
and it allows users to make pretty
basic backend APIs and
web apps with a minimum amount of code.
Flask is a little bit easier for
beginners.
It's not quite as opinionated, there
are less setup steps, less requirements.
So that's what I'm gonna be
focusing on for today's exercises.
But don't think that flask
is a simple web framework.
The great thing about Flask is as your
web application grows, you can add on all
sorts of different modules to
help you add on functionality for
databases or other types of things that
your web application might want to do.
Yet, another web framework that you
might hear of or see as pyramid.
It's a fast and
it's an advanced framework to
successor to the older pylons framework.
So, still popular and used but
not quite as popular for new projects.
Permit is opensource and
also actively developed.